The BET surface areas were determined using a   Micromeritics ASAP 2010 analyzer with N2 as the sorbate.   The materials were degassed in vacuo at 250 8C until the   static pressure remained less than 3 mm Hg prior to analysis.   Powder X-ray diffractions of the samples were obtained   using a Rigaku Rotaflex DMAX-B rotating anode X-ray   diffractometer with a Cu Ka radiation source operated at   40 kV and 100 mA. The 2u angles that were scanned ranged   from 108 to 908.   Temperature programmed reduction (TPR), temperature   programmed desorption (TPD) and chemisorption experiments were conducted using a Micromeritics ASAP 2910   sorption analyzer. For the TPR experiments, 100 mg of the   catalyst was heated from ambient temperature to 600 8C at   8 8C/min in a mixture of 5% H2/Ar flowing at 20 ml/min. Hydrogen consumption was monitored using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). A cold trap placed before the TCD was used to remove water from the exit stream. Before carrying out the TPD experiments, the catalysts and the oxide supports were reduced at 200 8C in 5% H2/Ar flowing at 20 ml/min then cooled in flowing He (20 ml/min). This reduction temperature was selected based on the TPR results. The pretreated materials were saturated with CO2 (Matheson), 10% NH3/He (Scott) or He at room temperature for 30 min (20 ml/min) prior to the CO2 TPD, NH3 TPD and He TPD experiments, respectively. The He TPD experiments were used to determine the products of decomposition of the materials. The samples were flushed with He flowing at 20 ml/min for 30 min, then the temperature was increased to 600 8C at a rate of 10 8C/min. Gases that desorbed were monitored using the TCD. Pulsed H2 chemisorption experiments were performed using a mixture of 10% H2 in Ar. Conditions were selected to avoid or minimize the formation of palladium hydride [22]. The catalysts were pretreated in a manner similar to that used prior to the TPD experiments. The materials were then cooled and flushed with He for 1 h prior to the chemisorption experiments.  
The infrared spectra were collected using a Thermo Nicolet Nexus 670 FT-IR instrument equipped with a mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector. The instrument had a smart collector DRIFTS accessory with an environmental chamber fitted with ZnSe windows capable of carrying out in situ reaction experiments. Typically, 256 scans were collected at a resolution of 2 cm1 to achieve sufficient signal to noise ratios. The catalysts were reduced at 200 8C in 4% H2 (balance N2), degassed in N2 and cooled to room temperature. A background spectrum for the reduced catalyst was taken at ambient temperature in flowing N2 before introducing the reactant mixture. To produce the reactant mixture, streams containing CH3OH and H2O were combined. The CH3OH containing stream was produced by passing N2 flowing at 50 ml/min through a CH3OH saturator maintained at 0 8C. Another stream of N2 flowing at 50 ml/min was passed through a H2O saturator held at 30 8C. The two streams were mixed and the resulting gas containing 2% CH3OH and 2% H2O (balance N2) was fed to the DRIFTS cell. After subjecting the catalysts to the reactant mixture at 230 8C for 1 h, the reaction was quenched to room temperature in the reaction gas. The gas phase species were removed by purging with N2 for another hour prior to collecting the spectra. The sample spectrum was obtained by subtracting the background spectrum from the single beam sample spectrum.
The catalytic activity measurements were performed at atmospheric pressure in a 5 mm I.D. U-tube quartz reactor. Approximately 30 mg of the catalyst was placed in a quartz wool plug inside the reactor. The reactor was then placed in a furnace. The temperature of the reactor was measured usinga K-type thermocouple contacting the catalyst bed and controlled using an Omega CN4431 temperature controller connected to the furnace. The catalysts were pretreated using conditions described in the previous section. The reactor was then brought to the desired temperature in order to measure the catalytic activity.
A premixed CH3OH and H2O (1:1 mol) stream was fed to the reactor using an isocratic Series II HPLC pump. Nitrogen (Ultra High Purity grade) from a Tylan FC-260 mass flow controller was mixed with the methanol–water stream and all the lines in contact with the resulting stream were heated to at least 110 8C to avoid condensation. The composition of the reactant stream before entering the catalyst bed was 11.5% CH3OH, 11.5% H2O, and balance N2. The gas hourly space velocity based on the CH3OH flow was 5450 h1. This was sufficiently high to ensure differential conversion during MSR over all the catalysts tested.
Product gas analysis was achieved using a HewlettPackard 5890 gas chromatograph equipped with a TCD. Argon was used as the carrier gas and separation of the constituents was achieved using a carboxen-1000 column (Supelco). The compositions of CO2, CO and H2 were calculated based on calibration standards. The lower detection limit for CO was 0.5%. The amount of CH3OH consumed was calculated from the CO and CO2 flow rates in the reactor effluent. The CO2 selectivity was defined as the ratio of the molar rate of CO2 formation to the molar rate of CH3OH consumption. The inlet composition and overall space velocity for reactions involving potential intermediates were chosen in order to simulate conditions during MSR. However, the conditions did not always result in differential conversions for the potential intermediates.
BET measurement (N2 adsorption/desorption) was obtained using an Autosorb-1 (Quantachrome) apparatus. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected on a Philips X’Pert MPD (Model PW3040/00) diffractometer using Cu Ka radiation. The diffraction patterns were analyzed using Jade 5 (Materials Data, Livermore, CA) and the Powder Diffraction File database (International Centre for Diffraction Data, Newtown Square, PA). The crystallite sizes were determined from the diffraction data using the Scherrer equation and a Gaussian shape factor of 0.9. All peaks above the background were profile-fitted using Pearson VII models with an exponent of 1.5. The full widths at half maximum (FWHMs) were corrected for instrumental broadening, and the instrument function was determined from a measurement of NIST SRM 640b (Silicon) under the study conditions. The corrected FWHMs of all peaks were utilized in the Scherrer calculations, so the reported crystallite sizes are independent of direction (hkl) and represent average values in all cases.
Methanol steam reforming activity was tested in a 4 mm I.D. quartz microcatalytic reactor. A mixture of methanol and water (weight ratio of 1:1) was introduced at a gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) of 36000 h 1. The gaseous product containing CO, CO2, and H2 was separated using molecular sieve 5A PLOT (MS-5A) and PoraPLOTQ columns, and was analyzed on-line by Hewlett Packard Quad Micro gas chromatograph (Model Q30L) equipped with a thermal conductivity detector. Methanol conversion was calculated based on the flow rate and gaseous product compositions of the dry reformate, monitored on-line by a flow meter and the gas chromatograph aforementioned.
Catalysts Characterization. ZnO samples and Pd/ ZnO catalysts were characterized using XRD, N2-sorption, TEM/HRTEM, and CO-FTIR. No apparent catalyst deactivation was observed for all the catalysts studied within the 4-5 h of investigated time on stream (TOS). All the spent Pd/ZnO catalysts are characterized by XRD and TEM/HRTEM. For in situ tests of CO-FTIR, pretreatment of catalysts was similar to that used during the MSR reaction. X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra were recorded using a Philips X’pert MPD (model PW3040/00) diffractometer with copper anode (Kα1 = 0.154 05 nm) and a scanning rate of 0.04° per second at 2θ = 20°-70°. The diffraction patterns were analyzed using Jade 5 (Materials Data Inc., Livermore, CA) and the Powder Diffraction File database (International Center for Diffraction Data, Newtown Square, PA). The particle size of the ZnO crystals was estimated from the XRD patterns using the Scherrer equation (d = 0.89λ/(B cos θ), where λ is the wavelength of Cu Kα radiation, B is the calibrated full width at half-maximum (fwhm) of the peak in radians, and θ is the diffraction angle of the crystal plan). Nitrogen sorption experiments were recorded on a Micromeritics TriStar II 3020 Automatic Physisorption Analyzer. Before adsorption analysis, samples were degassed under vacuum at 573 K for 1 h. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was conducted using a JEOL 2010 high-resolution analytical electron microscope operating at 200 kV with a LaB6 filament. To determine the average number particle size of Pd or PdZn, we counted a few hundred (300-500) particles in the different images. Scanning and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (STEM and HRTEM) were performed on a JEOL 2010F FASTEM field emission gun scanning transmission electron microscope equipped with EDS. The probe size of 0.3 nm was used for imaging, and 1.0 nm for analytical work; and accelerating voltage was 200 kV. Pdf’s 01-072-2936, 00-046- 1043, and 00-036-1451 were used to index PdZnβ, PdZnα, and ZnO, respectively.
CO-FTIR was used to probe surface composition of the catalysts by CO adsorption at room temperature, followed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).35 FTIR spectra were recorded with a Bruker spectrometer, equipped with a MCT detector (resolution, 4 cm-1, 128 scans). The samples pressed into a pellet were first pretreated under H2 for 2 h at the corresponding temperature. During this pretreatment, the sample was alternately exposed to H2 for 30 min and evacuated under vacuum for 15 min. After that, the temperature was cooled to room temperature, and small doses of CO were progressively added until saturation of the catalyst surface occurred.
Catalytic Reaction. Methanol steam reforming reactions were evaluated in a 4 mm i.d. quartz tube reactor at 250 °C, described elsewhere.6 100 mg of Pd/ZnO-N or 200 mg of Pd/ZnO-P catalysts were loaded between two layers of quartz wool inside the reactor. To achieve intermetallic PdZn with comparable particle size, all the Pd/ZnO-N catalysts and 1% Pd/ZnO-P were reduced in situ under 10% H2/N2 at 400°C for 2 h, and 350 °C was used for the reduction of 4.8% Pd/ ZnO-P and 9.1% Pd/ZnO-P. Following the reduction, these catalysts were cooled to 250 °C for catalytic evaluations. A premixture feed of water/methanol (molar ratio of 1.8:1) was pumped into a vaporizer operating at 180 °C and carried into the reactor by flowing N2. Different flow rates of the liquid feed (0.3-2 mL/h) were used while keeping the methanol/water/ N2 partial pressure constant (6.4 mol% methanol). Reaction products (H2, CO, CO2) were analyzed by using an online Micro-GC (MicroGC 3000A) equipped with TCD detectors.
Steam reforming of methanol over the catalysts was carried out in a fixed bed flow reactor system at atmospheric pressure. The composition of feeding gas was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 8.7 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 or 24 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 or 0.05 g. The products were analyzed by on-line gas chromatograph systems equipped with TCD detectors (Shimadzu GC-8A and GC-9A). Molecular sieve 5A was used for H2 and CO, and Porapak Q was used for CO2, HCHO, CH3OH and HCOOCH3. The sampling of the effluent gas was carried out after 1 h at each temperature. The catalyst activity reached the steady-state conditions. Selectivity to the carbon-containing products is determined on the basis of carbon mol. Water gas shift reaction (WGSR) was carried out in the same reactor system. The feeding gas composition was as follows—CO: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 6.2 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 g. Decomposition of methanol was also carried out in the same reactor system; here the feeding gas composition was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 g. Methanol and H2O were obtained from Wako Chemicals. They were also used without further purification. Life test in steam reforming of methanol was performed in the same reactor system and the feeding gas composition was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 8.7 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 24 000 cm3 h-1 g-1, reaction temperature: 523 K. The catalyst weight was 0.05 g. All the reactant gases were purchased from Takachiho Trading Co. Ltd. and were research grade. The gases were used without further purification.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were carried out using an X-ray diffractometer (PHILIPS, Philips X’Pert MRD) with Cu K (40 kV, 20 mA) radiation. The mean particle size of the supported metal was calculated from the XRD line broadening measurement using the Scherrer equation [15,16]. Transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL 100CX) observation was carried out for the Zn–Pd/C and Pd/ZnO catalysts after H2 reduction at 673 K and after the life test in methanol steam reforming for 50 h. The mean Pd–Zn alloy particle size from TEM was calculated by using the volume–area mean diameter [18]. The amount of the irreversible CO adsorption (CO/Pd) was measured in a vacuum system (dead volume: 65 cm3, sample weight: 0.030 g) by the volumetric method. The samples are pretreated in pure H2 reduction at 673 K for 1 h at atmospheric pressure. The equilibrium pressure of CO was 0.3–1.0 kPa. The details of the experimental procedure have been described in the previous reports [18,22].
Steam reforming of methanol over the catalysts was carried out in a fixed bed flow reactor system at atmospheric pressure. The composition of feeding gas was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 8.7 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 or 24 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 or 0.05 g. The products were analyzed by on-line gas chromatograph systems equipped with TCD detectors (Shimadzu GC-8A and GC-9A). Molecular sieve 5A was used for H2 and CO, and Porapak Q was used for CO2, HCHO, CH3OH and HCOOCH3. The sampling of the effluent gas was carried out after 1 h at each temperature. The catalyst activity reached the steady-state conditions. Selectivity to the carbon-containing products is determined on the basis of carbon mol. Water gas shift reaction (WGSR) was carried out in the same reactor system. The feeding gas composition was as follows—CO: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 6.2 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 g. Decomposition of methanol was also carried out in the same reactor system; here the feeding gas composition was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 12 000 cm3 h-1 g-1. The catalyst weight was 0.1 g. Methanol and H2O were obtained from Wako Chemicals. They were also used without further purification. Life test in steam reforming of methanol was performed in the same reactor system and the feeding gas composition was as follows—CH3OH: 6.2 vol.%, H2O: 8.7 vol.% (Ar balance), GHSV: 24 000 cm3 h-1 g-1, reaction temperature: 523 K. The catalyst weight was 0.05 g. All the reactant gases were purchased from Takachiho Trading Co. Ltd. and were research grade. The gases were used without further purification.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were carried out using an X-ray diffractometer (PHILIPS, Philips X’Pert MRD) with Cu K (40 kV, 20 mA) radiation. The mean particle size of the supported metal was calculated from the XRD line broadening measurement using the Scherrer equation [15,16]. Transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL 100CX) observation was carried out for the Zn–Pd/C and Pd/ZnO catalysts after H2 reduction at 673 K and after the life test in methanol steam reforming for 50 h. The mean Pd–Zn alloy particle size from TEM was calculated by using the volume–area mean diameter [18]. The amount of the irreversible CO adsorption (CO/Pd) was measured in a vacuum system (dead volume: 65 cm3, sample weight: 0.030 g) by the volumetric method. The samples are pretreated in pure H2 reduction at 673 K for 1 h at atmospheric pressure. The equilibrium pressure of CO was 0.3–1.0 kPa. The details of the experimental procedure have been described in the previous reports equation [15,16]. Transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL 100CX) observation was carried out for the Zn–Pd/C and Pd/ZnO catalysts after H2 reduction at 673 K and after the life test in methanol steam reforming for 50 h. The mean Pd–Zn alloy particle size from TEM was calculated by using the volume–area mean diameter [18]. The amount of the irreversible CO adsorption (CO/Pd) was measured in a vacuum system (dead volume: 65 cm3, sample weight: 0.030 g) by the volumetric method. The samples are pretreated in pure H2 reduction at 673 K for 1 h at atmospheric pressure. The equilibrium pressure of CO was 0.3–1.0 kPa. The details of the experimental procedure have been described in the previous reports.
X-ray diffraction experiments were performed ex situ under ambient conditions using a Siemens D5000 Spectrometer and Cu K a radiation (1.54178 A˚ ) at 300 K
X-ray diffraction (XRD) Powder X-ray diffraction was conducted on a STOE-STADIP-MP powder diffractometer in Bragg–Brentano geometry (Cu Ka1-radiation, Ge(111) monochromator) from 2h = 5 to 100. To increase the surface sensitivity of the measurements, the sample was measured under grazing incidence conditions, using 5 between the surface and the incoming beam.
Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy Surface morphology and chemical homogeneity of as-prepared thin film GaPd2 flakes have been investigated by scanning electron microscopy (JEOL 6610, W-cathode) equipped with silicon drift detector (SDD) for energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (Noran 7 system, ThermoFisher).
2.4. The HZB/BESSY II setup The HZB/BESSY II system [19] (at beamline ISISS-PGM) allowed us to perform in situ photoelectron spectroscopy up to 1 mbar total reactant pressure. It is equipped with differentially pumped electrostatic lenses and a SPECS hemispherical analyzer. The sample is positioned inside the high pressure/analysis chamber 2 mm away from a 1 mm aperture, which is the entrance to the lens system separating gas molecules from photoelectrons. Binding energies (BE) were generally referred to the Fermi edge recorded after each core level measurement. Samples were mounted on a transferable sapphire holder. The temperature was measured by a K-type Ni/NiCr thermocouple spot-welded to the side of the sample, and temperature-programmed heating was done by an IR laser from the rear. Sample cleaning by a mild Ar+ sputter treatment (1.5 min at 5 lA, 104 mbar) is sufficient to remove the ambientinduced carbonaceous/Ga(ox) layer. Mild conditions are needed in order to avoid major loss of film thickness. Subsequent annealing up to 673 K restores the clean surface. The sensitivity of the simultaneous MS detection of the reaction products at HZB/BESSY II was not sufficient to extract reliable reaction rate and selectivity data for H2/CO/CH2O/CO2, mainly because of an unfavorable ratio of the large total reactant flow through the XPS high-pressure cell (which is generally operated in constant flow mode) relative to the minor amounts of products formed on the low surface area and low activity catalyst. However, ‘‘connecting’’ experiments performed in the setup in Innsbruck (see below) using the same conditions with respect to initial reactant pressures and reaction temperature range, allowed to assess a possible ‘‘pressure gap’’ effect and provided a reliable connection between the data obtained in either experimental setup. The thickness of the Ga2O3 layer was calculated using the SRD 82 NIST database for estimating the electron attenuation lengths (EAL) for Ga2O3 and GaPd2. On the basis of the density of both GaPd2 (10.89 g cm3) and Ga2O3 (6.4 g cm3) and the asymmetry parameter for the Ga 3d peak (taken from the ELETTRA-Database; 0.8485 for a photon energy of 170 eV) electron attenuation lengths of 5.1 Å for GaPd2 and 4.1 Å for Ga2O3 resulted. The Ga2O3 thickness was subsequently calculated using the program XPS Thickness Solver.
Innsbruck experimental setup
The UHV system with attached all-glass high-pressure reaction cell [26] is designed for catalytic studies up to 1 bar on a larger piece of 1.8 cm  2 cm polycrystalline Pd foil, allowing us to detect reaction products and even minor intermediates with high sensitivity, either by discontinuous sample injection into the gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) setup (HP G1800A) or by direct online MS analysis of the reaction mixture via a capillary leak into the GC/MS detector. The system consists of an UHV chamber with a long-travel Z-manipulator and a small-volume Pyrex glass reactor (52 ml, no hot metal components) attached to the outside of the UHV chamber and accessible via a sample transfer port. The UHV chamber is equipped with an XPS/Auger/ISS spectrometer (Thermo Electron Alpha 110) and a standard double Mg/Al anode X-ray gun (XR 50, SPECS), an electron beam heater, an ion sputter gun, and a mass spectrometer (Balzers). For controlled In deposition, a home-built In evaporator was attached, which consists of a small boron nitride crucible filled with In metal (99.999%, Goodfellow) and heated by electron bombardment. A water-cooled quartz-crystal microbalance monitored the amount of deposited In. The UHV-prepared samples are thereafter transferred by means of a magnetically coupled transfer rod from the UHV sample holder to a Pyrex glass sample holder used inside the all-glass reaction cell. With this all-glass setup of the ambient-pressure reaction cell, no wires or thermocouples are connected to the sample during catalytic measurement (thermocouple mechanically contacted at the outside). Accordingly, background (blind) activity of the reaction cell is routinely checked and no conversion was observed for all test reactions. A detailed graphic representation of the ambient-pressure reaction cell setup is provided in the Supplementary material (Fig. S1). The main chamber is pumped by a turbomolecular pump, an ion getter pump, and a titanium sublimation pump to a base pressure in the low 1010 mbar range. High-purity gases (H2, O2, Ar: 5.0) were used as supplied from Messer–Griesheim and dosed via UHV leak valves. The high-pressure cell is evacuated sequentially by a rotary pump (via LN2 cooled zeolite trap) and then via the main chamber down to UHV base pressure and can be heated from outside to 723 K with an oven covering the cell. For better mixing of the reactants, the high-pressure cell is operated in circulating batch mode. By using an uncoated GC capillary attached to the high-pressure cell, the reaction mixture in the close vicinity of the sample is analyzed continuously by the electron ionization detector (EID) of the GC/MS system. For quantitative measurement of H2, we used (in parallel to the EID) an additional Balzers QMA 125 detector specifically tuned for optimum H2 detection. EID and QMS signals of methanol, CO2, CO, H2, and CH2O were externally calibrated and corrected for fragmentation (i.e., CO and CH2O fragments for methanol and CO fragment for CO2). A polycrystalline palladium foil (Goodfellow, purity 99.999%, 0.125 mm thick, size 3.5 cm2) was cleaned on both sides by successive cycles of Ar+ ion bombardment (6.0  105 mbar Ar, 503 eV, 1 lA sample current), oxidation (5.0  107 mbar O2, T = 1000 K), and annealing in hydrogen (5.0  107 mbar H2, T = 700 K) and in vacuum (T = 1000 K) until no impurities (surface carbon) were detected by AES and XPS. Details of the preparation of the PdIn multilayer intermetallic phase will be given in Section 3.1. Methanol and methanol/water mixtures were degassed by repeated freezeand-thaw cycles. All MSR reactions were conducted with methanol/water mixtures of a 1:10 composition of the liquid phase. This corresponds to a room temperature partial pressure ratio of methanol/water = 1:2, as verified by mass spectrometry.
The catalytic experiments were performed in a temperatureprogrammed manner, that is, the reaction cell was heated at a constant linear rate of 8 K/min to the final temperature of 623 K and then kept isothermal at this temperature for 20 min. Experimental details will be given in context with the individual reaction runs. The advantage of the temperature programmed reaction (TPR) runs is that pronounced selectivity changes can be monitored via the partial pressure changes as a function of the reaction temperature, yielding useful qualitative information about changes of the reaction mechanism and the catalyst state. From the product partial pressures vs. time plots, the reaction rates were obtained by differentiation and are usually given in partial pressure change per minute (mbar/min), but whenever desired, the ‘‘idealized’’ turnover frequencies (TOF’s) given in molecules per site and second (site1 s1) can be calculated by multiplication of the partial pressure change with a factor f = 4.8, for example, a reaction rate of 1 mbar/min corresponds to a TOF of 4.8 site1 s1. One ‘‘idealized active site’’ is viewed as a hypothetical Pd–In pair of surface atoms on the 1:1 intermetallic surface. Since this estimation yields the maximum conceivable number of active sites, the so-derived TOF values represent the lowest estimation limit. As a basis, we assumed a total number of potential catalytic surface sites Ns = 5  1015 on the entire 1:1 PdIn surface area of 7 cm2 on the basis of equally distributed (111) and (100) facets. The conversion factor is based on the partial pressures of the reaction products already corrected for the temperature change in the reaction cell during the TPR run and for the steady removal of a fraction of the reaction mixture through the capillary leak. The correction has been achieved by adding 30 mbar Ar inert gas at the beginning of the reaction run and monitoring the m/z = 40 Ar intensity throughout the whole experiment. The Ar intensity over time then was used to recalculate the changes of the molar amounts of all products and reactants as referred to the initial state (before TPR start, reactor volume 60.6 ml and 300 K in the whole re-circulating batch system).
In situ XPS experimental setup The in situ XPS system [27] at the beamline ISISS-PGM of BESSY II allowed us to perform in situ photoelectron spectroscopy up to 1 mbar total reactant pressures. It is equipped with differentially pumped electrostatic lenses and a SPECS hemispherical analyzer. The sample is positioned inside the near ambient-pressure chamber 2 mm away from a 1 mm aperture, which is the entrance to the lens system separating gas molecules from photoelectrons. Binding energies (BEs) were generally referred to the Fermi edge recorded after each core level measurement. Samples were mounted on a transferable sapphire holder. The temperature was measured by a K-type Ni/NiCr thermocouple spot-welded to the side of the sample and temperature-programmed heating was done by an IR laser from the rear. Sample cleaning procedures consisted of repeated cycles of Ar+ sputtering at room and elevated temperatures, annealing up to 950 K in UHV, and exposure to O2, followed by flashing at 950 K for 60 s in UHV. The cleanliness of the Pd foil substrate was checked by XPS. The sensitivity of the simultaneous MS detection of the reaction products at NAP-XPS setup was not sufficient to extract reliable reaction rate and selectivity data for H2/CO/CH2O/CO2, mainly because of an unfavorable ratio of the large total reactant flow through the XPS high-pressure cell (which is generally operated in constant flow mode) relative to the minor amounts of products formed on the low surface area catalyst (only 0.5 cm2 PdIn intermetallic surface on Pd foil). However, ‘‘connecting’’ experiments performed in the Innsbruck setup using the same conditions with respect to initial reactant pressures, PdIn NSIP preparation and reaction temperature range, allowed to assess a possible ‘‘pressure gap’’ effect and provided a reliable connection between the data obtained in either experimental setup.
Catalytic measurements in methanol steam reforming as well as catalyst activation treatments of all samples were performed in an NI Labview-automatized recirculating batch reactor of about 8 ml volume [7]. The system allows automated pretreatment cycles (oxidative and reductive) and reaction sequences. As the measurements should in principle allow assessing the contribution of different oxide-supported Pd-Ga alloys to the activity and selectivity in methanol steam reforming, activation treatments typically used for supported Pd catalysts to induce the formation of the potentially selective Pd-Ga alloy phase(s) were chosen [3]. Standard activation treatments therefore include oxidation in 1 bar O2 at 673 K followed by reduction in 1 bar H2 at varying temperature. For thin films, reduction temperatures between 373 K and 773 K were usually applied. Pd/Ga2O3 powder samples were treated in hydrogen at temperatures as high as 923 K.
The catalytic measurements were performed using a quadrupole mass spectrometer (Balzers QMG 311) attached to the circulating batch Duran glass reactor via a capillary leak. All methanol steam reforming reactions were conducted with methanol/water mixtures of a 1:9 composition of the liquid phase at room temperature. The gas phase compositions of a variety of different liquid mixtures have been empirically determined by mass spectrometry. On the basis of these measurements we could derive that the volumetric 1:9 mixture corresponds to a gas phase composition of 1:2 = methanol:water at room temperature. All methanol/water mixtures were degassed by repeated freezeand-thaw cycles. For each catalytic methanol steam reforming experiment, to about 50 mbar methanol/water mixture, 7.5 mbar Ar (to be measured at m/z = 40) was added to account for the decrease of the mass spectrometer signal due to the continuous gas withdrawal through the leak. Finally, He was added to 1 bar total pressure.
The molecular masses m/z =2 (H2), 16 (CH4), 18 (H2O), 28 (CO/N2), 29 (CH3OH/HCOOH), 30 (CH2O), 31 (CH3OH/CH2O), 32 (CH3OH/O2), 40 (Ar) and 44 (CO2), 45 (HCOOH) and 46 (HCOOH) were routinely collected. All mass spectrometer signals of CH3OH, CO2, CO, and H2 were externally calibrated and corrected for fragmentation in the mass spectrometer. This includes m/z = 28 for both CO2 and CH3OH and m/z = 45 for CO2. The mass m/z = 28 is therefore only influenced by CH3OH, CO2, and the formed CO via the reaction itself. In order to account for the partial adsorption of methanol and water on the stainless steel parts of the reaction system, all catalytic measurements include a 15 minute equilibration period in the starting mixture prior to each measurement. For methanol steam reforming, both temperature-programmed conversion and conversion versus time under isothermal conditions were monitored. In each case, the catalyst was exposed to the reaction mixture and the temperature was ramped with 5 K/min to the final value. For the partial pressure change versus time experiments, the product formation was monitored for 1 hour each at fixed reaction temperature. All the catalytic experiments were also corrected for the activity of the catalyst holder containing only quartz wool (almost negligible, at maximum 1 % conversion based on CO2 formation after 1 h). For data evaluation, the relative intensities of the mass spectrometer signals were converted into partial pressures via external calibration using gas mixtures of defined partial pressures.
Catalytic Performance Measurement. Catalyst’s activity and selectivity of steam reforming of methanol was conducted with a fixed-bed flow reactor at atmospheric pressure using 0.1 g of the catalyst in the temperature range of 403-523 K. The catalyst was first reduced in a stream of H2 (30 mL/min) from room temperature to 623 K with a heating rate of 10 K min-1. It was kept at this temperature for 2 h before cooling to the reaction temperature. The mole ratio of H2O/CH3OH is 1:1, and the space velocity was controlled at 18 000 mL h-1 g-1. The components of the effluent passed through a condenser and were then introduced to a gas. chromatogram (GC). The GC was equipped with two packed columns (Porapak Q, 5A molecule sieve) and one thermal conductivity detector (TCD). Three runs were performed to obtain a consistent result for every component peak area at each temperature point. The catalytic activity was expressed by the degree of CH3OH conversion, and hydrogen yield was calculated from the material balance. Meanwhile, CO2 selectivity [SCO2 (%)] was determined using the SCO2 (%) ) PCO2/(PCO2 + PCO) formula, where PCO2 and PCO are the partial pressures of CO2 and CO of gas production, respectively.
Characterization. Low- and wide-angle XRD patterns were obtained on a D8 Advance diffractometer (Bruker, Germany) with Ni-filteredCuKRradiation(40kV,40mA).N2adsorption-desorption isotherms were collected on an ASAP 2020 (Micrometrics) surface area and pore size analyzer at -196 C. Before the measurements, the samples were outgassed at 260 C in a vacuum for 6 h. The BET method was used to calculate the specific surface areas using desorption data. The pore size distributions (PSDs) were derived from the adsorption branches of the isotherms using the BarrettJoyner-Halenda (BJH) method. TPR was performed in an automatic apparatus (Chemisorb 2750) equipped with a TCD. The fresh catalyst (0.1 mg) was submitted to a heat treatment (10 C/min up to 600 C) in a mixture gas flow (50 mL/min) of H2/Ar (5:95 vol %). Previous to the TPR experiment, the samples were heat-treated under inert atmosphere at 350 C for 2 h. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra were obtained in the range of 400-4000 cm-1 on a Nicolet 5700 FTIR spectrometer using KBr pellets. Thermogravimetric analysis-differential thermogravimetry (TGA-DTG) was carried out in air flow using a DR-4P thermoanalyzer.
Characterization Total surface area was measured by the BET method from N2 adsorption by the single point method using a 30% N2/ He gas mixture, recorded at the temperature of liquid nitrogen. Temperature-Programmed Reduction (TPR) experiments were carried out on an automatic multitask unit RIG-100 from ISR INC equipped with a Thermal Conductivity Detector (TCD) with output to a computer. The oxidized catalyst (0.1 g) was placed in the reactor and purged with UHP Ar at room temperature and then the TPR measurement was performed using H2 (5%)/Ar gas mixture (30 mL/min). The temperature was increased at a rate of 10 C/min from room temperature to 700 C. The effluent gas was passed through silica gel to remove water before measuring the amount of hydrogen consumed during the reduction by the TCD. The signal was calibrated by 0.5 mL pulses of UHP H2 (5%)/Ar at the end of the experiment. For TPR of used catalyst, the sample was cleaned by He stream (30 mL/min) for 30 min at 500 C and cooled at room temperature, after this, the sample was purged with UHP Ar flow and the TPR was performed. X-ray diffraction (XRD) powder patterns were recorded in a Siemens D-5000 diffratometer, using Cu Ka (k = 0.15406 nm). The morphology and chemical composition of the samples were determined in a SEM-Philips XL-30, with resolution of 3.5 nm, fitted with energy dispersive X-ray Spectrometer (EDAX) at an acceleration voltage of 25 kV, obtaining the images with the backscattering electron signal. Before the analysis, the samples were fixed on aluminium specimen holder with an aluminum tape. A Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) JEOL JEM 2010 with resolution point to point of 0.23 nm was used to determine the structure and lattice parameters of the metallic nanoparticles on the support. Before the analysis, the catalyst was grinded in an agate mortar. Then samples were prepared by powder dispersed in isopropanol solution by ultrasonic vibration and suspended on holey carbon copper grids of 300 mesh.
Catalytic Reaction The steady-state activity in the steam reforming of methanol reaction was performed in a conventional fixed-bed flow reactor (8 mm i.d.) using a commercial flow system RIG- 100-ISRI. The catalytic test was evaluated in a temperature range from 225 to 500 C at atmospheric pressure with 0.2 g of the catalyst placed in the reactor with a thermocouple in contact with the catalytic bed to control the temperature inside the catalyst. The sample was first activated in a stream of H2 (5%)/He (60 mL/min) from room temperature to 300 C with a heating rate of 10 C/min and held at this temperature for 1 h. The catalyst was brought up to the reaction temperature in He and the reaction mixture was introduced. For the SRM reaction, He was used and the total flow rate was kept at 60 mL/min (GHSV = 30,000 h-1 based on the total flow). This gas was added by means of a mass flow controller (RIG-100) and bubbled through a tank containing mixture of water and methanol, the partial pressure of CH3OH and H2O was 75 and 12.75 Torr respectively. The effluent gas of the reactor was analyzed by gas chromatography using TCD. A 2 m packed Porapack Q column able to detect water, methanol, methyl formate (MF) and CO2 was used. A cold trap was used to retain the liquids, for the reason these were not quantified. The gaseous products such as H2, CO, CH4 and O2 were detected with a molecular sieve 5 A˚ . The following equations were used to determine the methanol conversion and selectivity.
The steam reforming of methanol was carried out in a conventional flow reactor in a temperature range of 433–623 K under atmospheric pressure. The inlet partial pressures of methanol and water were both kept at 10.1 kPa. Nitrogen was used as a diluent. Gases in the effluent were analyzed with a gas chromatograph equipped with TCD and FID. The selectivity was evaluated on the carbon basis.
To examine the nature of the catalysts prepared, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) was carried out in a flow of a hydrogen–argon mixture (4 vol.% H2). The catalyst was treated with a stream of hydrogen at room temperature. This treatment was continued until no hydrogen consumption was detected. Then the temperature of the catalyst was raised to 1023 K at a heating rate of 5 K min-1. Hydrogen from the reactor was analyzed on a gas chromatograph every 2 min and the amount of hydrogen consumed was determined.
The steam reforming and dehydrogenation of methanol were carried out in a conventional flow reactor at 493 and 473 K, respectively. For the steam reforming of methanol, the inlet partial pressures of methanol and water were both kept at 10.1 kPa. For the dehydrogenation of methanol, the inlet partial pressure of methanol was kept at 10.1 kPa. Nitrogen was used as a diluent. Gases in the effluent were analyzed by gas chromatography. The selectivity was evaluated on the carbon basis. In a similar fashion, dehydrogenation of ethanol was conducted in a flow of ethanol at an initial partial pressure of 20.2 kPa at 493 K. Experiments were also carried out in a stream containing HCHO or a mixture of HCHO=H2O at 373 K.
Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) of the catalysts was carried out in a flow of a hydrogen–argon mixture (4 vol% H2) at a heating rate of 5 K/min to 773 K. Hydrogen from the reactor was collected every 2 min in a sampling tube attached to the outlet of the reactor and analyzed by gas chromatography.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra of the catalysts were obtained using a JEOL JDX-8020 X-ray diffractometer, using Cu K radiation ð ¼ 0:15405 nmÞ: X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) were recorded using an ESCALAB-Mk2 (V.G. Scientific Co.) instrument. For the XPS measurements, a sample of the catalyst was pressed on a nickel holder coated with a gold, then placed in a reaction chamber, and reduced in a hydrogen stream to the specified temperatures under temperature-programmed conditions. The catalyst was then transferred to the analysis chamber without exposure to air and the spectra were recorded.
The number of metal surface sites of the Pd catalysts was determined by hydrogen chemisorption at 373 K to avoid hydride phase formation [40]. The turnover frequency for the hydrogen formation was estimated from the number of metal surface sites and the outflow rate of hydrogen.
Equipment The evaluation of catalytic performance was made at atmospheric pressure, using a thermostatized glass-lined stainless steel microrreactor (length: 65 mm, I.D.: 3.5 mm). An equimolar mixture of the liquid reactants, CH3OH/H2O, together with a stream of helium diluent, was continuously fed to an evaporator (operated at 393 K), using a Sage 220 syringe pump. Downstream, tubing and valves were heated, also at 393 K, to prevent condensation. Two Shimadzu 9A gas chromatographs (GC1 and GC2) were used in parallel, with a 6-way sampling valve, to measure the gas composition at the inlet and exit of the reactor. Water and carbon dioxide (TCD) andmethanol,methane andmethylformate (FID) were quantified on GC1 using a Porapak Q packed column and He as carrier gas. Carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and methane (TCD) were measured on GC2 using a Carbosieve II column and H2 as carrier gas. A glass condensator (273 K) was placed before the sampling valve of GC2 to collect and separate liquid products.
Catalysts performance experiments In a typical run, 50 mg of powdered catalyst (40/60 mesh), diluted 1:5 with fine quartz grains (80/100 mesh) was placed into the reactor, between two layers (∼2 cm/ea.) of silanized quartz wool. For MSR evaluation, 50 cm3NTP min-1 He were passed through the vaporizer, so as to feed the equimolar CH3OH/H2O mixture to the reactor (8 v/v% of each reactant). The gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) was 71,500 cm3 h-1 g-1 and the W/F0CH3OH ratio was 174 g h m-3CH3OH. Each catalyst was prereduced in situ under pure H2 (50 cm3NTP min-1) by heating from 298 to 623 K (ˇ = 2 K min-1) and keeping this last temperature during 2 h. The reactor was then cooled to 398 K and the gas stream was switched to pure He (50 cm3NTP min-1). After 30 min, the mixture of helium diluted, vaporized reactants was fed to the reactor. This pretreatment was chosen to ensure the formation of a PdZn alloy (wherever applicable [7,13–27]) prior to evaluating the catalysts’ performance. The MSR study was done using ‘temperature steps’, from 398 to 623 K (1 h/ea.; ˇ = 1 K min-1 between steps), and progressively cooling, also stepwise, afterwards.
The reaction between methanol and steam was performed in a vertical fixed bed tubular reactor (i.d. = 10 mm) made from stainless steel and operated at atmospheric pressure and close to isothermal conditions. The catalyst (powder, particle size 0.125.0.250 mm) was diluted with SiC (particle size 0.27 mm) in a ratio catalyst: SiC = 1: 3 and loaded into the reactor. The catalyst/SiC mixture was packed between an entrance and exit layer of SiC, the depth of each layer was approximately 10 mm. The absence of any activity of the SiC was confirmed in separate experiments. The reactor temperature was monitored and controlled using a thermocouple located at the exit of the catalyst bed. The reactor was placed in an aluminium jacket inside an electrical furnace which provided a flat temperature profile in the reaction zone. In most experiments the catalyst was reduced in flowing hydrogen (AGA, 99.999%), containing 8.7% nitrogen (AGA, 99.999%) at atmospheric pressure (473 K, 12 h) before the feed was introduced. Methanol (SDS, 99.5% purity) was premixed with water (distilled and de-ionized) and fed continuously using a pressurized container (pressure maintained by helium (AGA, 99.996%), and commercial liquid mass flow controllers. The liquids were evaporated and mixed with a small nitrogen stream (internal standard, AGA, 99.999%) before entering the reactor. The products were cooled and the liquids trapped in a condenser before the dry gas was analyzed by GC (Perkin-Elmer Autosyst XL, with a Supelco Carbosieve sII column using He as the carrier gas, providing quantitative analysis of CO, CO2, and N2 (internal standard). The conversion and selectivities were calculated according to Eqs. (4)–(5) assuming no side products. There were no methane or oxygenates detected at the conditions investigated, so the assumption is considered to be valid.
In the work described here the CO2 selectivities are very high (close to 100%), so instead we report the CO concentration in the dry gas, linked with the CO selectivity in Eq. (5) through a mass balance. At the conditions employed (stoichiometric or excess amounts of steam) the equilibrium methanol conversion is high, and above 98% from about 425 K. However, assuming that the WGS-reaction is at equilibrium the CO concentration is significant, and increases with increasing temperature.
Catalytic Measurements All catalytic experiments for the inverse Pd-Zr sample are performed using a 20 × 18 mm2 ultra-clean polycrystalline Pd foil (Goodfellow, 99.95%) with a thickness of 0.125 mm (for reference experiments on pure ZrO2, a pre-oxidized 0.127 mm Zr foil with the same size (Alfa Aesar, purity: 99.95%) is used). The foils are cleaned before loading to the UHV chamber in a water and an ethanol ultrasonic bath for 20 min, respectively. For catalytic testing in the ambient-pressure re-circulating batch reaction cell, the all-quartz-glass high-pressure (up to 1 bar) batch reactor (accessible via a long z-transfer rod allowing fast and reliable transfer without exposure to air) is equipped with a gas chromatograph providing either intermediate or continuous MS detection to determine the exact gas composition at any point of reaction. Continuous partial pressure detection is performed via a direct capillary leak to the EID of the GC-MS. The quartz-glass reactor with a total circulation volume of 296 mL is designed to measure small reaction rates and selectivity patterns within a temperature range between room temperature and 1300 K. A circulation pump ensures a constant flow and gas intermixing and an attached gas-premixing unit allows to set arbitrary compositions of the attached reactant vapors or introduced gases (methanol, methane (5.0), deionized and degassed water, CO2 (5.0), O2 (5.0), H2 (5.0), Ar (5.0) and He (5.0)). The sample holder itself is entirely made of quartz glass to avoid background reactivity from hot metal parts and is designed for 20 mm × 18 mm metal foils. A partial pressure of 8–30 mbar argon added to all gas mixtures allows accounting for the pressure-change due to the temperature program and the simultaneous gas loss through the capillary leak for continuous EID-MS detection. For partial pressure calculations, all base-line-corrected MS signals are calibrated using pure substances with quantitative consideration of fragmentation. For all MSR catalytic experiments shown in this work, an excess of water has been used to avoid eventual methanol dehydrogenation due to water shortage in the reaction mixture. In all experiments, He is added to a total pressure of 1 bar, in order to optimize both heat transfer and gas intermixing via efficient recirculation. After an equilibration and premixing period of 10 min, a heating routine (rate 10 K·min-1) up to 673 K is performed, followed by an isothermal period at 673 K, respectively 873 K (rate 19 K·min-1) followed by an isothermal period at 873 K. Exact experimental conditions are given in the respective Figure captions. For discussion about mass and heat transport limitations, we refer to a thorough discussion of the catalytic setup in Ref. 
Elemental and structural analysis was performed by electron microscopy and EDX spectroscopy. The transmission electron microscopic (TEM) investigations were performed using a FEI TECNAI F20 field emission TEM, equipped with a high angle annular dark field STEM detector (HAADF), an Apollo XLTW SDD X-Ray detector and a GATAN GIF Tridiem image filter. The spatial resolution of the EDX maps is about 1 nm. The TEM samples were prepared by means of focused ion beam (FIB) using a FEI Quanta 200 dual beam FIB and gentle Ar+-ion polishing in order to remove beam damage from prior FIB milling. To protect the surface, a Pt covering layer is deposited prior to the FIB process. Further, the layer is cut by using a Ga ionic beam, whose energy is decreased to about 1 kV in the last preparation step. This avoids damage to the cut layer. X-ray powder diffraction data were collected at ambient conditions with a Bruker AXS D8-Advance powder diffractometer using CuKα1 and CuKα2 radiation (λ1 = 1.5406 Å; λ2 = 1.5444 Å; 40 kV; 40 mA). The diffractometer exhibits a Bragg-Brentano reflection geometry with θ-θ coupling and parallel beam optics. An energy-dispersive Si(Li) semiconducting Sol-X detector was used. Data acquisition was performed in the 2θ range between 10◦ and 110◦ with a step width of 0.02◦ and a counting time of 5 s. 3.5. In Situ XPS Setup Synchrotron-based in situ XPS experiments were performed at the ISISS (Innovative Station for in situ Spectroscopy) beamline at the HZB/BESSY II synchrotron in Berlin, Germany. The experimental apparatus consists of a load lock and an in situ cell connected to the XPS spectrometer via differential pumping stages. The experimental apparatus has been described in the literature in detail previously [36]. Samples are heated in the in situ cell via a near-infrared semiconductor laser (λ = 808 nm) from the rear. The temperature is measured by a K-type (chromel-alumel) thermocouple positioned between sample holder back plate and Pd foil. All in situ experiments are performed on the same Pd foil sample that is used for the model catalyst preparation in the UHV instrument with attached batch reactor. For the inverse Pd-Zr sample, the same ZTB cylinder/leak valve setup discussed above is transferred to ISISS beamline. Due to the fact that ZTB only interacts with surfaces hotter than 500 K, it is safe to dose the organometallic precursor into the analysis chamber without any Zr deposition on the components of the vacuum system or on the X-ray window. The growth of ZTB can then be followed directly via XPS. To determine a potential influence of the X-ray beam on the sample structure and chemistry, heating was performed at random checking with and without X-ray beam. As no distinct changes in the spectra between the two runs have been observed, this influence is considered to be marginal. Monochromator control allows to choose photon energies corresponding to kinetic energies of the ejected photoelectrons of 120 eV for all monitored core-level photoemission peaks in order to extract information from a constant information depth and to yield the same attenuation of the photoelectrons through the gas phase. Due to the fact that 95% of the signal arises from a sample depth up to ~1 nm, this operation mode is considered to be maximum “surface sensitive”. Photoelectrons are collected in the direction normal to the surface at constant pass energy of 10 eV. Binding energies were referenced to the Fermi edge, which is measured each time the monochromator moves to a new position, i.e., whenever the incident photon energy was changed. Photoemission peak intensities are corrected for the respective photon flux at a given photon energy. The BESSY II synchrotron operates in top-up mode (constant ring current); hence, no additional correction for the ring current was required. Since all photoemission peaks were collected at the same kinetic energy of photoelectrons (120 eV), the attenuation through the gas phase was the same for all-core levels and, thus, cancels out in coverage calculations.
All spectra are analyzed using the CasaXPS software program, version 2.3.16 Pre-rel 1.4 (Casa Software Ltd. [37]. A Shirley background is applied to all spectra and the associated Scofield relative sensitivity factors are used for quantification. For peak fitting of the Zr 3d peaks, a weighted sum of Gaussian and Lorenzian peak shapes (CasaXPS line shape SGL(30)) is assumed, using a doublet separation (Zr 3d5/2 vs. Zr 3d3/2) of 2.4 eV for both metallic Zr [38] and zirconia [39] for fitting. The doublet area is kept constant at 3:2 as arising from spin-orbit d-electron coupling. Electron attenuation lengths were taken from the NIST database SR 82 [40] and the orbital asymmetric parameter from the ELETTRA online database of Ref. [41]. The quantification of the XPS data is given as atomic percentages or coverage/thickness. The atomic percentage is estimated assuming homogeneously mixed elements. Since an adlayer on the substrate surface is not a homogeneous system, the coverage/thickness gives a better representation. The ZrOxHy surface coverage is calculated assuming a non-attenuating adlayer on a semi-infinite substrate [20,23–25]. As the maximum ZrOxHy layer thicknesses remained in the sub-monolayer regime in this study, the influence of a potential attenuation effect of the photoelectrons by the overlayer remains negligible even for the highest exposures. This is tested by comparing the results on a ~1 ML ZrOxHy covered sample, using both an attenuating and non-attenuating overlayer model, which eventually shows negligible differences. Details of these calculations are given in Ref.
Catalytic activity measurement The MSR activity tests were conducted at a steam to methanol (S/C) ratio of 2.5 and a space velocity of 10,000 h-1 in a fixed bed reactor. The feed gas steam mixture consisted of CH3OH, H2O, and N2 with a CH3OH:H2O:N2 ratio of 1:2.5:4 (vol%). In addition, we injected 13.5 vol. % CH3OH in total gas. The experimental apparatus consisted of a catalytic reactor, a digital bubble flow meter, and mass flow controllers. The MSR reactor apparatus comprised a quartz tube (inner diameter: 8 mm; height: 650 mm) and a catalytic bed filled with quartz wool. The reactor was supplied with a CH3OH/steam mixture (1:2.5, vol%) and a carrier gas, and their flow rates were controlled using a micro liquid pump (JASCO, MINICHEMI PUMP). The inlet gas supply pipe was made of stainless steel (size: 1/4′) and covered with a heating band at 180 °C for preheating N2 gas. The methanol/stem mixture supply pipe was made of stainless steel (size: 1/16′) and covered with a quartz tube wound with a nichrome wire at 300 °C for vapor production. The product gases were analyzed using a gas chromatograph (6890 N Agilent Co.) equipped with 6 Å molecular sieve and Porapak-Q columns and thermal conductivity detectors (TCDs).
2.3. Catalyst characterization The specific surface areas and pore sizes of the catalysts were investigated using an ASAP 2010C analyzer (Micromeritics). The specific surface area was calculated using the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) equation, and the average pore size was calculated using the BarrettJoyner-Halenda (BJH) method. Each sample was analyzed in a vacuum state at 300 °C for 2 h after the gas was removed. Field-emission transmission electron microscopy (FE-TEM) images
were recorded on a JEM-2100 F microscope (JEOL Co.) operating at 200 kV. Samples for the FE-TEM measurements were prepared by suspending ultrasonically treated catalyst powder in ethanol and placing a drop of the suspension on the Cu grid. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis was performed using an X'Pert PRO MRD diffractometer (PANalytical Co.) with a Cu Ka (λ = 1.5056 Å) radiation source and the X-ray generator operating at 30 kW. XRD patterns were measured at a scanning speed of 6°/min in the 2θ range of 10–90°. The catalysts were confirmed in terms of their dispersion by CO chemisorption at 25 °C. The catalyst sample, which was activated in a 10% H2/N2 gas flow at 250 °C for 30 min, was cooled to 25 °C and saturated with pulses of 10% CO/N2 gas. The temperature-programmed reaction analyses were performed using an Autochem 2920 analyzer (Micromeritics). The temperatureprogrammed reduction (TPR) of H2 was analyzed using 10% H2/N2 and 0.3 g of catalyst at a total flow rate of 50 cc/min. All catalysts were pretreated by injecting 5% O2/He 50 cc/min at 300 °C and then cooling to 60 °C. After, The catalysts were then treated with 10% H2/N2 at 60 °C for 0.5 h. The catalyst was placed in dilute H2, and the consumption of H2 was monitored using a TCD in the Autochem 2920 while increasing the temperature to 800 °C at a rate of 10 °C/min. The temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of CO and CH3OH was performed with 0.3 g of catalyst at total flow of 50 cc/min. All catalysts were pretreated before the TPD analysis. The catalysts were then treated with 1% CO/Ar or 1500 ppm CH3OH/N2 at 60 °C for 0.5 h. The absorbed CO or CH3OH was purged with Ar for 1 h before starting the TPD analysis. During the TPD analysis, the quantities of CO (m/ e = 28), CO2 (m/e = 44), CH4 (m/e = 16), and H2 (m/e = 2) were continuously monitored using a quadrupole mass spectrometer (QMS 422) while the temperature was increased to 800 °C at a rate of 10 °C/ min. The temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR) analysis was performed with 0.3 g of catalyst using a fixed bed reactor and the QMS. Before the TPSR analysis, all the catalysts were pretreated in Ar at 300 °C for 0.5 h and then cooled to 100 °C. During injection of CH3OH, H2O, and N2 at a ratio of 1:2.5:4 (vol%), the temperature was increased up to 500 °C at a rate of 10 °C/min. The generated gases were monitored using the QMS. In situ diffuse reflectance infrared spectroscopy (DRIFTS) analysis was performed using a Nicolet iS10 spectrometer (Thermo Fisher) equipped with a Diffuse Reflectance (DR) 400 accessory for solid reflectance analysis. A CaF2 window was used as a plate for the DR measurements and the spectra were collected using a mercury cadmium telluride detector. The sample was preprocessed with Ar at a flow rate of 50 cc/min at 300 °C for 1 h. To collect the spectra of the catalysts, a single-beam spectrum of the preprocessed sample was measured as a background, and all analyses were performed via auto scanning at a resolution of 8 cm-1.
2.2 Infrared Spectroscopy IR spectra were recorded with a Nicolet Magna 750 spectrometer, equipped with a MCT detector (resolution: 4 cm-1, 128 scans). The sample pressed into a pellet (ca. 30 mg for a 1.32 cm2 pellet) was activated using two different pretreatment methods. The first pretreatment method reduces the catalyst under H2 for 2 h at 773 K. The second pretreatment includes the calcination of catalyst under O2 for 2 h at 773 K, followed by first cooling the sample under vacuum to 293 K and then reduced under H2 at 293 K for 2 h. During the oxidation (or reduction) treatment, the sample was alternatively exposed to O2 (or H2) for 4 min and evacuated under vacuum for 2 min to simulate flow conditions. After these pretreatments, CO adsorption was conducted at 293 K. For some of the experiments, CO was then evacuated under vacuum at 623 K and a mixture of H2O + CH3OH (molar ratio 1.8:1), was introduced into the cell for 30 min at 548 K (5 cycles: H2O + CH3OH for 4 min and evacuation under vacuum for 2 min). This step was followed by an evacuation under vacuum at 623 K and a CO adsorption at 293 K. For each CO adsorption, 1.1 lmol of gas was introduced.
2.3 Reactivity Methanol steam reforming activity was evaluated in a 4 mm I.D quartz tube reactor. Approximately 200 mg of catalyst was loaded between two layers of quartz wool inside the reactor. A thermocouple was placed in the middle of the catalyst bed. A pre-mixture feed of water/ methanol (molar ratio of 1.8:1), was aerated through a vaporizer operating at 643 K and introduced into the reactor using a syringe pump. Nitrogen purge was fed into the system using a Brooks Mass Flow Controller (5850E series). The nitrogen consisted of 29% of the total vapor feed (molar). Total throughput was run at GHSV = 21,845 h-1 at a temperature of 548 K. Prior to activity tests, the catalyst was reduced in-situ under 10%H2/N2 at 623 K for 2 h. A glass condenser at 273 K was used to separate liquid products from gaseous products. The product gases, CO, CO2 and H2 were separated using MS- 5A and PPQ columns and analyzed on-line by means of a MTI Quad Micro GC (Model Q30L) equipped with a TCD.
2.2. Catalyst Characterization. Specific surface areas (SSAs) of the catalysts and the supports were determined by the BET technique, by obtaining N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms at 77 K. The isotherms were recorded using a Gemini 2360 surface area analyzer. The samples were previously outgassed for 3 h at 300 C and a residual pressure of 10-3 Torr. The X-ray diffraction patterns of the catalysts and supports were obtained in a D-5000 Siemens diffractometer, equipped with a SiLi Kevex detector, which eliminates the fluorescence of the sample. The powdered sample was scanned using Cu KR monochromatic radiation (λ ) 0.15406 nm). A scanning range of 2θ ) 10-70and scan step size of 0.020with 5 s collection time were used. Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) experiments were performed in a flow system using a Micromeritics TPD/TPR 2900 model equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). The sample (60 mg) was cooled to -20 C under a flow of argon. A 5%H2/Ar mixture was passed through the sample at a flow rate of 40 cm3 min-1 (STP), and TPR profiles were obtained by heating the sample from subambient temperature to 700 C at a heating rate of 10 C min-1. The effluent gas was passed through a cold trap to remove the water produced. The H2 content of the dried gas was obtained using the TCD and was recorded as a function of temperature using computer software. The TPR experiments were started at subambient temperature to ensure the detection of the reduction of Pd, which typically occurs at around ambient temperature. CO chemisorption using the volumetric technique was performed using a Micromeritics ASAP 2010C instrument to determine the Pd dispersion of the catalysts as described in a previous study.10 X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analyses were carried out in a VG Sigma Probe multichannel spectrometer using Al KR radiation (1486.6 eV). The instrument was equipped with a flood gun to reduce sample charging. The samples were mixed with about 20 wt % graphite powder, to provide an internal standard, and pressed into pellets for use in the spectrometer. The full scan spectra were recorded at a pass energy of 80 eV with 0.5 eV steps. The partial spectra were recorded at a pass energy of 20 eV with 0.1 eV steps. All spectra were recorded with a dwell time of 40 ms. Atomic ratios of the elements were calculated from the relative peak areas of the respective core level lines using Wagner sensitivity factors.
2.3. Catalytic Activity Measurements. Methanol steam reforming tests were carried out in a Microactivity-Pro unit (PID Eng&Tech. S.L.). The equipment consists of a stainless steel tubular reactor (9.2 mm i.d., L ) 300 mm) located inside an electric oven. The temperature in the catalytic bed was measured by means of a thermocouple. A six-port VICI valve allowed the gas flow to be directed into the reactor or to bypass it. These components were located inside a stainless steel hot box, equipped with an air convector, to vaporize liquid reactants, preheat the carrier gas, and prevent condensation of volatile products in the ducts. The mixture of liquid reactants (methanol and water) was fed by means of a GILSON 307 piston pump. At the reactor outlet, a thermoelectric unit was used to separate condensable vapors. The gaseous product stream from the reactor was analyzed online using a Varian CP-3380 gas chromatograph equipped with a heated sampling valve, two columns (6 m Hayesep Q and 1 m Molecular Sieve 13X), and a thermal conductivity detector. Helium was used as both the carrier gas and the reference gas. Catalyst (100 mg) was placed on a quartz wool plug inside the tube reactor and reduced under a flow of 20 vol % H2/N2 (50 cm3/min, STP) at the desired temperature (400 or 500 C) for 1 h. The heating rate was 3 C/min. After this catalyst activation step, the reaction temperature was set to 400 C, and the catalytic test was performed isothermally at atmospheric pressure. The liquid water/methanol mixture (1.2 molar ratio) was fed at 2 cm3/h, vaporized at 160 C, and further diluted by a flow of N2 (50 cm3/min, STP).
2.2. Catalyst characterizations The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) were collected on a BRUKER D2 PHASER with Cu Ka radiation. Transmission electronic microscopy (TEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and element mappings were characterized by a JEOL JEM-2010 instrument. BET surface area (SBET), pore volume (VP) and pore diameter (DP) were measured on Micromeritics. ASAP 2460 instrument at 77 K. Temperature-programmed reduction with hydrogen (H2-TPR) of the catalysts was carried out on Micromeritics Autochem II 2920 instrument equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). Prior to the TPR measurements, the catalysts were pretreated for 1.0 h at 300 C in Ar atmosphere, and cooled to 50 C, and then heated to 900 C at a heating rate of 10 C min1 in a flow of 10% H2/Ar. Temperatureprogrammed desorption of methanol (CH3OH-TPD) was performed on Micromeritics Autochem II 2920 instrument coupled with a Hiden HPR20 mass spectrometer. Catalyst was loaded in quartz reactor, pretreated in flowing 5% O2/He at 400 C for 1.0 h, and cooled to room temperature, and then switched to He purging for 1.0 h. After that, the pretreated catalysts were exposed to CH3OH/He, purged with He at room temperature for 30 min, and then heated (10 C min1) to 400 C in He (30 cm3 min1). The product effluents were detected by mass spectrometer and based on their characteristic mass fragmentation patterns, corresponding to the mass spectrometer m/e values of 31 (CH3OH), 30 (H2CO), 45 (CH3OCH3), 44 (CO2), 60 (CH3OOCH), 46 (HCOOH), 28 (CO), 18 (H2O), 15 (CH4) and 2 (H2), respectively. Temperature programmed desorption of water (H2O-TPD) was performed by the same instruments used in CH3OH-TPD and the details can be found in our previous work [36]. Pt dispersion was determined through CO pulse chemisorptions on Micromeritics Autochem II 2920 instrument. Catalyst was heated to 250 C and kept it for 1.0 h in flowing He (30 cm3 min1), and then the temperature was ramped to 400 C at a heating rate of 5 C min1. The catalyst was then reduced for 2.0 h in a flow of 10% H2/Ar, and purged with He at 400 C for 1.0 h. Finally, after naturally cooling to 25 C, CO pulses were injected from a sample loop onto the catalysts surface until the constant CO signals were achieved.
2.3. Catalytic activity measurements The catalytic activities of catalysts with respect to methanol steam reforming were evaluated under atmospheric pressure in fixed bed reactor. 200 mg catalysts with 40e60 mesh were placed in a flowing-type quartz tube (internal diameter 6.0 mm, length of catalyst bed ~7.0 mm) allowing activity to be tested using stepwise temperature changes from 250 C to 400 C. A thermocouple was extended to the center of the catalyst bed to monitor and ensure accurate reaction temperature. A mixture of water and methanol with the desired mole ratio was injected continuously into a flow of pure N2 by syringe pump and vaporizer. The activity test at each temperature was repeated for three times and the reproducibility was within acceptable limits (±2.0%). The feed and the product gases were quantitatively analyzed by an online gas chromatograph (GC-2014C, Shimadzu) equipped with thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and flame ionization detector (FID). The methanol conversion and product selectivity can be calculated by the following equations.
2.2 X Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) XPS measurements were carried out using a multi-technique SPECS unit furnished with a hemispherical PHOIBOS 150 analyzer, operating in the fixed analyzer transmission (FAT) mode. The spectra were obtained using the Al Kα X-ray source (@ 200 W and 12 kV; pass energy = 30 eV). Each sample was treated in situ in a pretreatment chamber attached to the main XPS chamber as follows: (i) at 623 K in O 2 (5%)/Ar flow for 10 min and (ii) at 423 and 623 K in H2 (5%)/Ar flow, for 10 min each time (heating ramp for each pretreatment=10 K/min). After each treatment, the samples were transferred to the analysis chamber without exposure to air (base pressure = 2 × 10-8 Pa). Ce 3d, C 1s, O 1s, Pd 3d, Zn 2p core levels and Zn LMM Auger signals were recorded (the C 1s signal at 285 eV was used as reference). Shirley-type background and a 70:30 ratio of Gaussian-to-Lorentzian functions were used for data treatment, employing the Casa XPS program (Casa Software Ltd, UK). For the quantification of the elements, sensitivity factors provided by the manufacturer were used.
2.3 Infrared Carbon Monoxide Adsorption Studies The supported metal (either Pd or PdZn bimetallic) particles were studied by Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) in the transmission mode, using carbon monoxide as a molecular probe. A Nicolet Magna 550 series II spectrometer, featuring a MCT-A detector, was employed. Self-supported wafers (13 mm diameter, ~ 30 mg/ea., pressed at 4 ton/cm2) were placed, in turn, into a Pyrex® IR cell, with water-cooled NaCl windows, which was attached to a conventional high-vacuum system (base pressure = 1.33 × 10-4 Pa) equipped with a manifold for gas flow and dosage. Infrared spectra were acquired every 2 min, averaging 100 scans (4 cm-1 resolution) and normalized by pellet weight. The selected range of CO adsorption pressures was similar to the one the catalysts were exposed to during their MSR performance studies [16]. Ultra high purity He, N2 and H 2 (99.999%) supplied by INDURA (Air Liquide Argentina), together with research grade CO (99.99%) and CO2 (99.996%), supplied by AGA (Linde Argentina) were used. A calibrated CO (1%)/He mixture (He purity: 99.999%) was also employed. Oxygen and water impurities were removed with MnO/Al 2O3 and 3 Å molecular sieve (Fisher Co.) traps, respectively. The infrared spectra were processed using the Origin® software package, solving specific signals with Lorentzian and/or Gaussian functions to determine integrated absorbance and/or peak intensity, where appropriate. The background absorption corresponding to the pre-reduced and evacuated sample, at room temperature, was subtracted from each spectrum.
2.2. Characterization 2.2.1. Inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) The chemical composition of the materials was determined by ICP-OES analyser (Vista RL, Varian) and is reported in Table 1. For each analysis, 15 mg of the sample was dissolved in aqua regia. Materials composition is determined based on an average value of three experiments. Metal contents were quantified by matrix-matched calibration using multi element standards. 2.2.2. In situ X-ray diffraction (in situ XRD) A PANalytical X’Pert X-ray diffractometer with an in situ heating accessory and Cu K1 radiation was used to analyze structural transformation of LCPO and LCZO during temperature programmed reduction. XRD data were collected in the range of 20–80◦ 2 at 30 ◦C and while heating up from 50 to 600 ◦C with 5 K/min in 5 vol% H2 in N2. 2.2.3. Differential thermal analysis/thermogravimetry (DTA/TG) To gain insight into the reducibility of un-substituted and Pd and/or Zn-containing LaCo1-x-yPdxZnyO3±ı, differential thermal analyses in combination with thermogravimetric measurements were performed using a Netzsch STA 449 Jupiter system. For each experiment, 50 mg of the material was placed inside a corundum crucible. Pretreatment was performed by heating in He to 120 ◦C with 5 K/min and 1 h holding time to desorb gaseous molecules from the surface. After cooling down to room temperature, the atmosphere was changed to reductive conditions (10 vol% H2/He) and the sample was heated up to 800 ◦C with 5 K/min. The sample was subsequently cooled down to room temperature in He flow. The 1st derivative of the mass loss curve (smoothed using Savitzky–Golay filter method) is plotted as a function of temperature (DTG) in order to determine the temperature onset of thermally induced reduction.
2.3. Methanol steam reforming (MSR) The MSR activity tests were carried out in a Microactivity Reference (PID Eng&Tech) fixed bed reactor. The amount of materials used was varied between 15 and 40 mg to achieve comparable CH3OH conversion for all materials. The sample was diluted with 200 mg of catalytically inactive graphite (Chempur, 99.9%) to improve mass and heat transport. The material was placed in a silica coated stainless steel tube reactor (di = 7.9 mm), which was placed inside the oven. Lines were heated to 120 ◦C to prevent condensation of reactants and products. CH3OH and deionized H2O were fed to an evaporator in a 1:1 molar ratio by means of two independent HPLC pumps. The resulting gas streams were mixed with 38.7 mL/min N2 (carrier gas) and 4.6 mL/min He. Helium was used as an internal standard for quantitative analysis of the gaseous products by gas chromatography (GC). Prior to the MSR reaction, the material was pretreated reductively in 10 vol% H2 in N2 (Vtotal = 41.9 mL/min) at 590 ◦C for 2 h. The reductive pretreatment temperature was determined based on the DTA/TG measurements. Each experiment consists of a series of isothermal steps for 1 h at 150, 200, 250, 300, 350 and 400 ◦C. Isothermal steps at 375, 325, 275, 225, 175 and 150 ◦C were also conducted while cooling down. Subsequently, heating-up part was repeated. The arithmetic mean values (calculated for five consecutive GC measurements at each isothermal step) of CH3OH conversion (%), CO2 selectivity (%) and specific activity (mmol H2/(g(catalyst)*h)) are studied as a function of temperature. Unconverted CH3OH and H2O were separated from the outlet stream using a cooling trap. Remaining moisture was removed by drying the product stream with a Nafion membrane (Perma Pure) by dry N2 in counter flow mode. The dried gases were injected into a Varian Micro GC CP4900 gas chromatograph. Taking into consideration that no other potential by-products (e.g., CH4) were detected, CH3OH conversion XCH3OH (%) is defined as.
2.1. Materials and methods Titanium (IV) isopropoxide, 98+% (TIPR) and ammonium hydroxide, reagent ACS were obtained from Acros Organics, New Jersey, USA. Hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide minimum, 99% (CTAB), Cu (II) nitrate hydrate, 98% ACS reagent, cobalt (II) chloride hexahydrate, zinc nitrate hexahydrate 98%, tin chloride dehydrate 98%, and palladium nitrate hydrate were procured from Sigma-Aldrich, Missouri, USA. Nickel nitrate, hydroflouric acid, ethanol anhydrous and acetone, ACS reagent were purchased from Fischer Scientific, New Jersey, USA. All materials used were analytical grade and used without further purification. The water used at all stages of the experiments was purified using a Mill-Q Advantage A10 with Elix 5 system obtained from Millipore Corporation (Bedford, MA, USA).
2.3. Catalyst characterization The catalysts were extensively characterized to study their physical and chemical properties using different techniques including N2 physisorption, small and wide angle X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermo-gravimetric and differential scanning calorimetric analysis (TGA–DSC), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), and temperature programmed reduction (TPR). TGA–DSC of the different catalyst samples under air flow (100 ml/min) was carried out using SDT Q600 V20.4 Build14 system (TA instruments, New Castle, DE, USA). The as-prepared catalyst sample was placed in an alumina crucible and heated under air at 10 ◦C/min from ambient to desired temperature. N2 adsorption–desorption technique was used to determine Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area, pore size and pore volume of the catalysts samples. The N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms were measured at liquid nitrogen temperature of -196.14 ◦C using Quantachrome NOVA 2200e instrument (Quantachrome Instruments, Boynton Beach, FL, USA). Samples were thoroughly degassed at 150 ◦C for several hours before the adsorption measurements. The total pore volume was derived based on the amount of N2 adsorbed at a relative pressure close to one. Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH) method was applied to the desorption branch of N2 isotherms to determine the pore size distribution (PSD) and average pore diameters [23]. Powder XRD patterns of the catalyst samples were obtained using D8 DISCOVER X-ray diffractometer from Bruker (Bruker Optics, Inc., Billerica, MA) equipped with a PSD detector using Cu K radiations generated at 40 mA and 40 kV at 0.014◦/s scan speed. Scherrer’s formula (Eq. (1)) was used to determine the sizes of TiO2 and metal crystallites from full-width-half-maximum of respective XRD peaks.
2.4. Catalysts testing Methanol steam reforming experiments to examine the performance of different TiO2 supported catalysts were carried out in a tubular stainless steel packed bed reactor (6.22 mm internal diameter) in the range of 150–350 ◦C. A catalyst and sand (white quartz, 50–70 mesh) mixture (2:1 volume ratio) was packed into the reactor with quartz wool placed at both ends. The calcined catalyst was first reduced ex-situ in a tubular furnace for 2 h and then in-situ in the reactor for 1 h using 4% H2/Ar at 350 ◦C. A methanol/water mixture was fed to the reactor using a HPLC pump via a vaporizer set at 350 ◦C. The reactor outlet stream was passed through a condenser to separate unreacted reactants from the non-condensable product gases. While the reaction temperature was varied in the range of 150–350 ◦C, gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) and methanol to water mole ratio were kept constant at 2838 h-1 and 3:1, respectively, for all the experiments. The reaction products and collected condensate were analyzed by Agilent 7890B gas chromatography system. The gaseous products were separated using Restek ShinCarbon (2 m × 2 mm × 1/8  ) packed column and analyzed on thermal conductivity detector (TCD) using Argon as a carrier gas. Condensate mixture carried using He gas was separated on Agilent DB-1 (60 m × 250 m × 1 m) capillary column and analyzed on flame ionization detector (FID). While the conversion of methanol is obtained using methanol material balance based on feed and condensate (Eq. (2)), the product selectivities are determined by hydrogen (Eq. (3)) and carbon (Eq. (4)) balance among the different non-condensable products.
2.4. Activity measurements MSR catalytic tests were performed in a fixed bed reactor (7.25 mm i.d.) at atmospheric pressure with the following experimental conditions: a steam/methanol molar ratio of 1.5 and a contact time of Wcat./F0 CH3OH = 83kgcat · mol-1 · s-1. The reactor was loaded with 400 mg of catalyst (180–350 m) and diluted with 800 mg of glass beads. The micro-reactor was placed in the electrically heated furnace and the temperature was controlled by placing a temperature controller inside the furnace as well as inside the micro-reactor through a K-type thermocouple inserted into the catalytic bed. Plug flow conditions were ensured keeping catalyst bed length to catalyst size ratio above 50 (Lreactor/dparticle ≥ 50) and the reactor diameter to size ratio above 30 (Dreactor/dparticle ≥ 30) [13].
2.2. In situ X-ray diffraction (XRD) In situ XRD experiments were performed on a STOE Theta/Theta diffractometer (Cu Ka radiation, secondary monochromator, and scintillation counter) operating in reflection scan mode. The diffractometer is equipped with an Anton Paar XRK 900 high-temperature gas cell. In situ diffraction patterns were recorded in a 2h range from 32.5 to 47.5 with a step size of 0.02 and a time per step of 2 s. The calcined sample (5 wt.% Pd/Ga2O3) was preoxidized at 773 K in a 20% O2/He mixture, then cooled to 303 K, and flushed in He. The atmosphere was then changed to a flow of 25% H2 in He, and the diffraction pattern was recorded. To check for the presence of Pd–hydride, the cell was subsequently flushed in He once more before starting the temperature-programmed reduction in H2/He from 303 K to 773 K with diffractograms being recorded at temperature plateaus in steps of 25 K. An analogous temperature-programmed experiment was performed in the absence of H2, i.e., in a flow of pure He. All experiments were performed at ambient pressure at a total flow of 100 ml/min.
2.3. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) Transmission electron micrographs were acquired with a 200 kV FEI TECNAI F20 S-TWIN analytical transmission electron microscope, equipped with a field emission source. TEM specimens were prepared by dipping a holey carbon–coated copper grid into the fine sample powders. Before microscopy, catalyst samples were reduced (ex situ) in a H2 flow for 120 min. Reduction temperatures were 303 K and 673 K.
2.4. In situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) In situ XP-spectroscopy experiments were performed at the ISISS beamline at BESSY II (Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin) at photon energies between 160 and 1120 eV and normal electron emission. The setup allows for in situ photoemission studies in the mbar range and has been described in detail, e.g., in [36]. Hydrogen and oxygen gas were introduced into the system by calibrated mass flow controllers. All spectra were corrected for synchrotron beam current, incident photon flux, and energy-dependent photoionization cross sections [37]. Binding energy calibration, to account for small shifts due to sample charging, was done by keeping the main Ga3+ signal originating from the bulk Ga2O3 support at 20.55 eV and additionally recording valence band spectra at the same excitation energy. Peak deconvolution was performed using the software XPSPeak 4.1 by fitting symmetric Gauss–Lorentz sum functions with the exception of Pd metal for which an asymmetric peak shape was used (described by the parameters TS (peak shape asymmetry) and TL (tail extension asymmetry)).
2.5. In situ FTIR spectroscopy FTIR spectra were recorded in transmission mode on a Bruker IFS 28 spectrometer using an MCT detector at a resolution of 4 cm1. The calcined samples were pressed into self-supporting wafers (6 mm in diameter, m  10 mg) and placed into a small transmission flow cell with CaF2 windows, equipped with a ringshaped furnace and a type-K thermocouple mounted to the sample holder. A spectrum recorded without sample in a flow of He was used as a background that was subtracted from all spectra. Typically, about 100 scans were summed up, so that recording an IR spectrum took less than 1 min. All pretreatments were performed in situ inside the cell using gas flows introduced via calibrated mass flow controllers. In the temperature-programmed reduction experiment, the sample was reduced for 60 min in 25% H2/N2 at each temperature ranging from 303 K to 673 K (the maximum temperature in the current cell construction), flushed, and cooled to room temperature in pure N2 before switching to the 5% CO/He mixture (pCO = 50 mbar) used for adsorption. Before reduction at the next (higher) temperature, CO was removed from the surface by heating to 673 K in a flow of N2. In the in situ experiment performed under methanol steam reforming turnover, the sample was reduced at 303 K and 673 K in an analogous way, then flushed in pure N2 at 673 K, and cooled to the desired reaction temperature before switching to the steam reforming feed containing CH3OH and H2O at a molar ratio of 1:1 (pCH3OH = pH2O = 10 mbar).
2.6. Catalytic measurements Methanol steam reforming (MSR) and reverse water–gas shift (RWGS) studies were carried out in a continuous fixed-bed flow reactor (d = 4 mm) at reaction temperatures between 493 and 573 K and atmospheric pressure. All gases were introduced via calibrated mass flow controllers. In MSR, separate He flows were channeled through saturators containing liquid methanol and water, resulting in a molar CH3OH:H2O ratio of 1:1 (pCH3OH = pH2O = 30 mbar) at a total flow of 20 ml/min. In RWGS, the reaction mixture contained H2 and CO2 at a molar ratio of 3:1 (pCO2 = 18 mbar, pH2 = 54 mbar) at a total flow of 40 ml/min. The resulting mixture in each case was fed to a temperaturecontrolled, fixed-bed reactor containing 20 mg of catalyst and was subsequently analyzed by a HP6890 gas chromatograph, equipped with a HP Plot Q column, a nickel catalyst methanizer, and a flame ionization detector.
2.2. Reactivity measurements Measurements of the steam reforming of methanol were performed in tubular packed-bed reactors. The reactor consisted of a 1.75-mm-i.d. quartz tube positioned in an insulated programmable oven. The temperatures of the reactor outer surface and the reactor inlet and outlet were measured. The reactor effluent stream passed through a gas-sampling valve, then through a condenser to trap unreacted water and methanol before reaching a digital mass flow meter, which allowed monitoring of total product dry gas flow. The effluent of the reactor was analyzed using a Varian CP-3800 gas chromatograph equipped with a Porapak Q column and a thermal conductivity detector, using helium as the carrier gas. The analysis of the gas-phase species CO2, CO, and CH3OH, along with a carbon balance, allowed calculation of the methanol conversion and CO2 selectivity. The gas chromatograph was programmed to sample reactor product gases at 20-min intervals around the clock. The entire system was automated by Labview software and appropriate data acquisition hardware. Material balance was done as follows. Using the methanol conversion and CO2 selectivity and the reaction network stoichiometry, the total theoretical dry gas flow rate was calculated and compared with the reading of the mass flow meter. The error was <10% in all experiments. Before the reaction, the catalyst was pretreated under different conditions, as explained in Section 3. After pretreatment, the catalyst was brought to the reaction temperature of 250 ◦C under helium flow. A mixture of 1.1:1 molar water/methanol was then pumped using a syringe pump (Cole Parmer 74900) at 0.2 ml/h to an in-house built vaporizer operating at 130 ◦C. The vaporizer was optimized to ensure a stable flow rate and minimize fluctuations in the water–methanol molar ratio [9]. Samples were not injected into the gas chromatograph until 15–30 min after the water– methanol flow was started, to allow the flow rate to stabilize. Product distribution was monitored while the flow rate of the liquid water–methanol mixture was changed from low to high.
2.3. Catalyst characterization Scanning and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (STEM and HRTEM) were performed on a JEOL 2010F FASTEM field emission gun scanning transmission electron microscope. Powdered samples were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) using a Scintag Pad V diffractometer with DataScan 4 software (from MDI, Inc.) for system automation and data collection. CuKα radiation (40 kV, 35 mA) was used with a Bicron Scintillation detector (with a pyrolitic graphite curved crystal monochromator). Data were analyzed with Jade 6.5 Software (from MDI, Inc.) using the ICDD (International Center for Diffraction Data) PDF2 database (rev. 2004) for phase identification. All catalyst characterization was performed after the catalyst had been used for reactivity measurements in steam reforming of methanol for 4 h except when stated otherwise. Full-pattern Rietveld refinement using Riqas 3.1 (MDI Inc.) was performed to quantify the amounts of Pd and PdZn phases and their particle sizes in these catalysts.
2.2. Catalyst characterization Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on a Rigaku RINT1100 diffractometer with Cu Ka (l = 0.15406 nm) radiation. Scanning 2u angles ranged from 208 to 808.
2.3. Activity test The OMR reactions were carried out in a fully automated flow reaction system as described elsewhere [23] with 0.3 g catalysts at atmospheric pressure. Before the reaction, the catalyst was pre-reduced in situ at 500 8C in a 20% H2 + 80% N2 gas flow for 2 h, and then cooled to 250 8C for the reaction. The methanol weight hourly space velocity (WMHSV) was 47 h1. N2 was used as the carrier gas and as an internal standard for dry product gas flow calculations. The products were analyzed on-line using a Shimadzu GC-8A gas chromatograph automatic analysis system. Unless otherwise mentioned, the initial activity was evaluated from the data collected over reaction times of between 1 and 3 h on stream. The gas yield (moles of CO2 + CO produced per mole of methanol feed) was used as a measure to compare the catalyst activity. The selectivity of CO formation was defined as moles of CO per mole CO2 + CO formed in the products.
Catalyst characterization BET surface area measurement. BET surface area analysis was carried out using a Quantachrome Quadrasorb evo system. A 5-point analysis was performed using N2 as the adsorbate gas. Samples were degassed in vacuum for 1 h at 120 °C prior to analysis. In situ XRD. XRD analysis was conducted using a PANalytical X'pert Pro diffractometer employing a Cu Kα X-ray source. Typical scans were taken over a 2θ angular range between 10 and 80° using 40 kV and 40 mA X-ray source settings. Catalyst samples were heated to 500 °C under a constant flow of 5% H2/N2 (20 mL min-1) and scans were taken at 100 °C temperature intervals. H2-Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) TPR analysis was carried out on a Thermo TPD/R/O 1100 series instrument equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). The catalyst (50 mg) was heated up to 600 °C under an atmosphere of 10% H2/Ar (5 °C min-1) after pretreatment in Ar at 110 °C for 45 min.
Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). Samples for examination by STEM were prepared by dry dispersing the catalyst powder (reduced at 500 °C) onto a holey carbon film supported by a 300-mesh copper TEM grid. Bright field (BF) and high angle annular dark field (HAADF) STEM images were taken using an aberration corrected JEM ARM- 200CF microscope operating at 200 kV. This instrument was also equipped with a JEOL Centurio silicon drift detector for X-ray energy dispersive spectroscopy (XEDS). Particle size distribution histograms were generated by analysis of representative HAADF electron micrographs using ImageJ.
2.4. Catalytic tests The catalytic activity tests of MSR were performed in a fixed bed reactor at pressures between 1 and 1.6 bar, with the following experimental conditions: steam/methanol molar ratio of 1.5 and a contact time of W/F0 = 83 kg mol-1 s-1 (where W is the mass of the catalyst, 200 mg and F0 is the flow rate of methanol). The stainless steel microreactor was placed in an electrically heated furnace and the temperature was controlled inside the furnace as well as in the catalytic bed using a K-type thermocouple inserted into the catalytic bed. Argon was used as carrier gas and the flow of reactants was controlled by mass flow meters and the gas products were analysed by an online mass spectrometer. The concentration of CO (ppm) in the products was measured directly using an on-line CO analyser (reading error ± 2 ppm). An average of at least 10 measurements was taken to reduce the reading error. Prior to the catalytic test, the catalyst was pre-treated in situ for 2 h by heating up to 200 ◦C in a stream of Ar (30 mL/min). Subsequently, the hydrogen gas was switched on and the final stream consisted of 70% H2/Ar. Finally, the catalyst was cooled down to 180 ◦C and the reaction mixture was introduced. An average of four measurements spaced by 15 min was taken to assure that a stable state of the catalyst performance was reached.
2.1. Methods Catalytic reaction was carried out at 1 atm of pressure in a fixed-bed, continuous flow reactor made of a quartz tube (8 mm id) [8,9]. The flow rate was in general 40 ml/min. The carrier gas was Ar, which was bubbled through methanol at room temperature: their content was 9.0–10 vol%. Generally 0.3 g of loosely compressed catalyst sample was used. After reduction of the catalyst, the reactor was flushed with argon for 15 min, and the sample was cooled to the lowest reaction temperature in Ar flow. After changing the Ar to the reacting gas mixture the reactor was gradually heated to the selected temperature and the analysis of the gases was performed at each temperature. Analysis was carried out with a gas chromatographs: a HP 5890 equipped with PORAPAQ Q and PORAPAQ S packed columns. In the study of the reaction of methanol-water mixture of different composition, the reactants were introduced into an evaporator with the help of an infusion pump (MEDICOR ASSISTOR PCI flow rate: 1.0 ml liquid/ h): the evaporator was flushed with Ar-flow (36 ml/min). Alcohol or alcohol–water containing Ar-flow entered the reactor through an externally heated tube avoiding condensation. The conversion.
2.2. Characterization Chemical composition of the materials was obtained by ICP-OES (Vista RL, Varian). All samples were dissolved in aqua regia and measured in triplicate. Oxygen content of the samples was determined by carrier gas hot extraction (TCH 600, Leco). DTA/TG/MS measurements were conducted in a Netzsch STA 448 F3 Jupiter combined with a Pfeiffer Omnistar quadrupole mass spectrometer on approximately 80 mg samples. The high resolution of 1 lg makes the TG measurements a valuable method for the investigation of small mass changes in reactive atmosphere and the rather high amount of sample results in a standard deviation of less than 0.01 wt%. For the DTA/TG/MS measurements the samples were heated with 5 C/min to 200 C and cooled down to room temperature again to desorb moisture and other volatile compounds prior to the reductive treatment. Gas flows during the measurements (10 vol% hydrogen in helium for reduction) with a total flow of 50 mL/min were provided by mass flow controllers (Bronkhorst). All DTA/TG/MS measurements are corrected by blank measurements to account for any non-sample effects. Low temperatureprogrammed reduction (TPR) was measured in the range of 80 C up to 550 C with a Thermo TPDRO 1100 in 10 vol% hydrogen in argon (total flow 20 mL/min). Prior to reduction, samples were pretreated in 5 vol% oxygen in helium (total flow 20 mL/ min) heating with 5 C/min and holding 1 h at 400 C. All samples were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) with a Huber G670 (Guinier geometry, Cu Ka1 radiation k = 1.54060 Å, quartz monochromator, image plate detector) to identify crystalline phases during reduction and catalytic measurements. XRD patterns were fitted using the program PowderCell to estimate the content of the phases and their crystallite size.
2.4. Catalytic testing Catalytic tests were conducted in a fixed-bed flow reactor between 260 C and 350 C. For comparison a Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 and a 10 wt% Pd/SiO2 catalyst were tested under identical conditions. The respective In–Pd intermetallic compounds were formed by in situ pre-reduction of the PdO/In2O3 inside the fixed-bed flow reactor directly before the catalytic measurements. The homogeneous reactant flow of premixed methanol and water with a molar ratio of 1:1 was provided by a Bronkhorst l-Flow mass flow controller connected to an evaporator. To separate the unconverted reactants from the product stream a Nafion membrane (Perma Pure) was used. During all catalytic measurements the membrane was flushed with 10 L/h nitrogen in counter flow mode to dry the product stream. A HP-GC 5890 series II equipped with a TCD and a GS-Gaspro column (30 m ⁄ 0.32 lm) was used to analyze the formed hydrogen in the product stream. An FT-IR multigas detector DX2000 (Gasmet) measured the CO and CO2 concentration simultaneously down into the low ppm range. The rate of methanol conversion is calculated according to Eq. (4), while the CO2- selectivity is calculated according to Eq. (5), which is justified by the fact that no by-products besides CO were detected. For comparison of the selectivities the space time velocity was adjusted to achieve 30% methanol conversion for all materials. Apparent activation energies were derived from Arrhenius plots. XRD measurements of the samples after the catalytic test in MSR were performed ex situ in air.
2.2. Characterization Nitrogen adsorption was measured at 77 K with in a Micromeritics Gemini System, and Quantachrome Autosorb 1-C/TCD. The samples were treated at 120 C for 3+ h under vacuum before measurements. The surface areas were determined from adsorption values for five relative pressures (P/P0) ranging from 0.05 to 0.2 using the BET method. CO TPD and pulse chemisorption experiments were conducted on a Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 analyzer. Catalysts (typically 0.1–0.3 g) were loaded in a quartz tube that was placed in the built-in furnace. Temperature control was achieved via a type-K thermocouple that was inserted in the quartz tube just above the catalyst layer. The quartz tube was connected to gas lines that were controlled with built-in mass flow controllers. The catalysts were typically purged with dry helium and then reduced in 10% H2/Ar (total flow 50 sccm) at 400 C for 2 h before experiments. For CO TPD experiments, the sample was first saturated with CO and then purged with dry helium to remove physisorbed molecules before temperature ramp (10 K/min from ambient to 500 C). CO desorption was monitored with a built-in TCD detector. For pulse chemisorption studies, the cleaned sample was exposed to pulses of 0.5-ml CO or H2 until 5 consecutive pulses yielding identical signal areas. CO pulse chemisorption was conducted at 50 C; H2 pulse chemisorption was performed at 100 C to avoid metal hydride formation. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed on a Hitachi S-5200, with a resolution of 0.5 nm at 30 kV and 1.7 nm at 1 kV, and EDS was carried out at 20 kV using a PGT Spirit system. X-ray fluorescence was conducted on Spectrace QuanX EDXRF at 50 keV, with 2 mm spot size and Zn and Pd standards. X-ray powder diffraction patterns were recorded using a Scintag Pad V diffractometer with DataScan 4 software (from MDI, Inc.) for system automation and data collection. Cu Ka radiation (40 kV, 35 mA) was used with a Bicron Scintillation detector (with a pyrolytic graphite curved crystal monochromator). Data sets were analyzed with Jade 9.5 Software (from MDI, Inc.) using the ICDD (International Center for Diffraction Data) PDF2 database (rev. 2004) for phase identification. Rietveldt analysis was performed using the software package GSAS [15], employing an anisotropic microstrain model in the peak profile function [16]. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was performed on a Kratos Axis Ultra X-ray photoelectron spectrometer. Spectra were recorded under the operating pressure of around 2  109 torr using a monochromatic Al Ka source operating at 300 W with charge compensation. Broad-range spectra were acquired at 80 eV pass energy while high resolution spectra were acquired at a pass energy of 20 eV. Ambient Pressure-XPS experiments were carried out at ISIS, the catalysis beamline of the Fritz Haber Institute at the 3rd generation synchrotron BESSY II (Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin). The powder samples were pressed into self supporting 1 mm disks thick that were mounted in the in situ heated holder and exposed to gases at up to 0.25 mbar. Spectra were generated using incident photon energies of 120 eV above monitored B.E. energy window and adjusted for beamline photon flux variations. Incident photon energies were 120 eV for Zn3d/VB, 410 eV for C1s, 460 eV for Pd3d, 650 eV for O1s, and 1250 eV for survey scans. Pass energy was 20 eV for survey and 10 eV for detailed scans, respectively, and the exit slit of the beamline was 111 lm. The sample was mounted, chamber evacuated, and survey and detailed scans were first acquired. The sample was then heated to 250 C in the presence of flowing 0.25 mbar (or 0.19 torr) hydrogen, then MSR reactions were carried out under 1:1 CH3OH:H2O at 0.5 mbar, sample was cooled to 100 C, and 1:1 CO:O2 fed at 0.5 mbar. Reactions were monitored via QMS. Quantification of XPS was performed using CasaXPS software. Subtraction of a Shirley background was followed by charge referencing of all spectra to gold powder dabbed near the sample for ex situ XPS, carbon at 285 eV, and the Fermi level. Sensitivity factors were provided by the manufacturer or referenced to published data. Curve-fitting was carried out using individual peaks with 70% Gaussian/30% Lorentzian line shape and widths, and binding energies were constrained to best experimental fittings of reference Pd, PdO, and ZnO materials. For conciseness, only APXPS results are presented in this manuscript.
2.3. Catalytic activity All catalysts were pelletized and sieved to 106–260 lm, and then 20 mg of the sieved powder was loaded in a 1.7 mm ID reactor tube with a packed catalyst bed length of 20 mm and 5 mg quartz wool plug on either end of the catalyst bed. Reactivity studies were performed in a reactor tube placed in a temperature programmable convection furnace for the reactor capable of 30 C/min heating, a reactor feed system, and a Varian 3800 GC equipped with TCD detector for the analysis of the products. The reactor feed system used MKS mass flow controllers and a high-pressure pump-fed vaporizer system for introducing liquid reactants such as water and methanol. Samples were treated in situ, and then tested for MSR activity at 250 C until steady-state performance was achieved. Oxidation, reduction, and oxidation and reduction treatments followed by MSR at 250 C were used to evaluate the catalyst deactivation and regeneration. Once steady MSR performance was reached, the MSR reactivity was measured over a range of temperatures, followed by CO-oxidation measurements to quantify the surface palladium sites. Methanol steam reforming activity was evaluated using a high-pressure pump that feeds 0.003 ml/min of a pre-mixed water/methanol mixture (molar ratio of 1.1:1) aerated with 77.5 sccm preheated Helium through a vaporizer operating at 100 C and introduced directly into the reactor. Prior to activity tests, the catalyst was oxidized in situ for 60 min using 50 sccm 2% O2/He at 250 C to burn off any contaminants then reduced in situ under 50 sccm 5% H2/He for 120 min at 250 C [17] to reform the alloy at the surface. Product gases from the reactor were analyzed using a series/bypass configured molsieve/Capillary column in a Varian CP-3800 GC equipped with TCD detector. CO-oxidation was carried out in the same system using flows of 30 sccm 5% CO/He, 50 sccm 2% O2/He. High vacuum TPD experiments were conducted in a diffusionpumped system equipped with VGQ quadruple mass-spectrometer, temperature controlled radiatively heated sample basket, cold-cathode gage for pressure measurement, and leak valve for introduction of probe gasses. Approximately 20 mg of the powder sample was loaded in the basket, pumped down for 4 h, and then heated to 350 C in 2 Torr H2 for 2 h to remove adsorbed environmental gasses and rereduce the PdZn alloys. Samples were exposed to 2 Torr probe gas for 30 min, and then pumped down for 4 h. Samples were then heated at 10 K/min up to 427 C and desorption products monitored by quadruple mass-spectrometer. Standard analysis adjusting for overlapping fragmentation patterns was applied.
2.2. Catalyst activity measurements Catalyst performance measurements were carried out in a tubular packed-bed reactor of a stainless steel tube of inner diameter (i.d.) of 5/8 in. Catalyst was crushed and sieved to 125–250 m prior to reactor packing. The stainless steel tube reactor was passivated using Silicosteel CR coating. Blank tests without catalyst present showed negligible methanol conversion. An aqueous methanol solution was fed through a HPLC pump to an in-house built vaporizer operating at 240 ◦C. The vaporizer was optimized to obtain a stable flow rate and minimize fluctuations in water–methanol molar ratio. The methanol/water liquid flow was started after the reactor temperature reached the desired set point under nitrogen flow. The product distribution was monitored throughout the entire operation while changing the flow rate of the liquid water/methanol mixture from low to high. The temperature of the reactor outer surface was measured as well as the catalyst bed and the reactor outlet temperatures. The effluent gas stream from the reactor was analyzed using an Agilent 3000A Micro GC equipped with four channels and four TCD detectors. Nitrogen as internal standard was injected into reformate from the reactor outlet prior to GC analysis. The entire system was automated and controlled using a computer for operation and data acquisition. The analysis of gas phase species of CO2, CO, H2O, CH4 and CH3OH along with a carbon balance allows methanol conversion and reforming (or CO2) selectivity to be calculated below:
2.3. Catalyst characterization TGA–DTA–TPO–MS analysis was used to characterize aged catalyst samples for types and quantities of carbonates formed on the catalyst surface. The crystallite phase and composition of fresh and used catalysts were determined by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Crystallite size of PdZn and morphology were characterized using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy dispersive Xray spectroscopy (EDS). Surface compositions were analyzed using XPS.
